Adding references for Functions (#8005)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/function-configs.md

---
title: Function configurations
description: "Read this guide to learn about using function configurations in dbt."
meta:
  resource_type: Functions
---

import ConfigResource from '/snippets/_config-description-resource.md';
import ConfigGeneral from '/snippets/_config-description-general.md';

## Available configurations
### Function-specific configurations

<ConfigResource meta={frontMatter.meta} />

<Tabs
  groupId="config-languages"
  defaultValue="project-yaml"
  values={[
    { label: 'Project file', value: 'project-yaml', },
    { label: 'Property file', value: 'property-yaml', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="project-yaml">

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yml

> functions:

Reviewer: should we update https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt_project.yml too then?
<img width="328" height="449" alt="Screenshot 2025-10-08 at 6 35 33 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/576e1fc0-ef97-432d-85ed-9904fc5f4279" />

Reviewer: also - @QMalcolm do we have a `function-paths` dbt_project.yml property to optionally specify a custom list of directories where functions are located?

Reviewer 2: added to dbt_project.yml file and keeping this open while we wait for @QMalcolm

Author: I'll add `function-paths` because I found it here. https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/blob/d5071fa13502be273596a0b7c8b13d14b6c68655/core/dbt/contracts/project.py#L290

@QMalcolm can LMK if I'm wrong!

Reviewer 3: We do have a `function-paths` 🙂

Reviewer 2: thanks so much team, resolving!

  [<resource-path>](/reference/resource-configs/resource-path):
    # Function-specific configs are defined in the property file
    # See functions/schema.yml examples below

```

</File>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="property-yaml">

<File name='functions/schema.yml'>

```yaml
version: 2

functions:
  - name: [<function-name>]
    config:
      # Standard configs that apply to functions
      [database](/reference/resource-configs/database): <string>

>       [schema](/reference/resource-properties/schema): <string>

Reviewer: @QMalcolm what about `identifier`?

also - do functions respect the same `generate_database_name`, etc. macros that models use?

Author: @graciegoheen  I added this note but did not specify whether functions use the generate_*_name macros because I can't find any evidence of that:

> Database, schema, and alias configuration
> Functions support `database`, `schema`, and `alias` configurations just like models. These determine where the function is created in your warehouse. The function will use the standard dbt configuration precedence (specific config > project config > target profile defaults).

Reviewer 3: `identifier` is not currently supported by `functions`. `identifier` is specific to `sources` I believe.

Functions will respect the `generate_database_name`. We inherited a lot of the same code models use.

Reviewer 2: added note about that

      [alias](/reference/resource-configs/alias): <string>
      [tags](/reference/resource-configs/tags): <string> | [<string>]
      [meta](/reference/resource-configs/meta): {<dictionary>}

```

</File>

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### General configurations

<ConfigGeneral />

<Tabs
  groupId="config-languages"
  defaultValue="project-yaml"
  values={[
    { label: 'Project file', value: 'project-yaml', },
    { label: 'Property file', value: 'property-yaml', },
  ]
}>

<TabItem value="project-yaml">

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
functions:
  [<resource-path>](/reference/resource-configs/resource-path):

>     [+](/reference/resource-configs/plus-prefix)[enabled](/reference/resource-configs/enabled): true | false

Author: @graciegoheen and @QMalcolm are these correct?

Reviewer 3: This list of configs looks good to me 👍🏻

Reviewer: @QMalcolm what about `identifier`?

Reviewer 3: `identifier` is not currently supported by `functions`. `identifier` is specific to `sources` I believe.

    [+](/reference/resource-configs/plus-prefix)[tags](/reference/resource-configs/tags): <string> | [<string>]
    [+](/reference/resource-configs/plus-prefix)[database](/reference/resource-configs/database): <string>
    [+](/reference/resource-configs/plus-prefix)[schema](/reference/resource-properties/schema): <string>
    [+](/reference/resource-configs/plus-prefix)[alias](/reference/resource-configs/alias): <string>
    [+](/reference/resource-configs/plus-prefix)[meta](/reference/resource-configs/meta): {<dictionary>}

```

</File>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="property-yaml">

<File name='functions/schema.yml'>

```yaml
version: 2

functions:
  - name: [<function-name>]
    config:
      [enabled](/reference/resource-configs/enabled): true | false
      [tags](/reference/resource-configs/tags): <string> | [<string>]

>       [database](/reference/resource-configs/database): <string>

Reviewer: @QMalcolm what about `identifier`?

Reviewer 3: `identifier` is not currently supported by `functions`. `identifier` is specific to sources I believe.

      [schema](/reference/resource-properties/schema): <string>
      [alias](/reference/resource-configs/alias): <string>
      [meta](/reference/resource-configs/meta): {<dictionary>}

```

</File>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Configuring functions
Functions are configured in YAML files, either in `dbt_project.yml` or within an individual function's YAML properties file. The function body is defined in a SQL file in the `functions/` directory.

> Function configurations, like model configurations, are applied hierarchically — configurations applied to a subdirectory will take precedence over configurations applied to the entire project, and configurations defined in a specific function's properties will override configurations defined in `dbt_project.yml`.

Reviewer: this is true of all configurations - i'm not sure we need to explicitly call this out here

https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/define-configs#config-inheritance

> Function configurations, like model configurations, are applied hierarchically — configurations applied to a subdirectory will take precedence over configurations applied to the entire project, and configurations defined in a specific function's properties will override configurations defined in `dbt_project.yml`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Configuring functions
Functions are configured in YAML files, either in `dbt_project.yml` or within an individual function's YAML properties file. The function body is defined in a SQL file in the `functions/` directory.

Function configurations, like model configurations, are applied hierarchically. For more info, refer to [config inheritance](/reference/define-configs#config-inheritance)
```

### Examples
#### Apply the `schema` configuration to all functions
To apply a configuration to all functions, including those in any installed [packages](/docs/build/packages), nest the configuration directly under the `functions` key:

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yml

functions:
  +schema: udf_schema
```

</File>

#### Apply the `schema` configuration to all functions in your project
To apply a configuration to all functions in your project only (i.e. _excluding_ any functions in installed packages), provide your [project name](/reference/project-configs/name.md) as part of the resource path.

For a project named `jaffle_shop`:

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yml

functions:
  jaffle_shop:
    +schema: udf_schema
```

</File>

Similarly, you can use the name of an installed package to configure functions in that package.

#### Apply the `schema` configuration to one function only

> To apply a configuration to one function only, provide the full resource path (including the project name, and subdirectories).

Reviewer: the example below if the schema.yml file?

Author: fixed in [this commit](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/8005/commits/859c17dd76931eb57b6bc6baa165b65316fa97e1)! LMK if it now makes sense!

<File name='functions/schema.yml'>

```yml
version: 2

functions:
  - name: is_positive_int
    config:
      schema: udf_schema
```

</File>

Or in `dbt_project.yml`, for a project named `jaffle_shop`, with a function file at `functions/is_positive_int.sql`:

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yml
functions:
  jaffle_shop:
    is_positive_int:
      +schema: udf_schema
```

</File>

## Example function configuration
The following is a valid function configuration for a project with:
* `name: jaffle_shop`
* A function file at `functions/is_positive_int.sql`

> * A function file at `functions/marketing/clean_url.sql`

Reviewer: how? i'm confused by this list

Author: updated intro sentence in [this commit](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/8005/commits/859c17dd76931eb57b6bc6baa165b65316fa97e1). LMK if it's better!

    [+](/reference/resource-configs/plus-prefix)[schema](/reference/resource-properties/schema): <string>
    [+](/reference/resource-configs/plus-prefix)[alias](/reference/resource-configs/alias): <string>
    [+](/reference/resource-configs/plus-prefix)[meta](/reference/resource-configs/meta): {<dictionary>}

```

</File>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="property-yaml">

<File name='functions/schema.yml'>

```yaml
version: 2

functions:
  - name: [<function-name>]
    config:
      [enabled](/reference/resource-configs/enabled): true | false
      [tags](/reference/resource-configs/tags): <string> | [<string>]
      [database](/reference/resource-configs/database): <string>
      [schema](/reference/resource-properties/schema): <string>
      [alias](/reference/resource-configs/alias): <string>
      [meta](/reference/resource-configs/meta): {<dictionary>}

```

</File>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Configuring functions
Functions are configured in YAML files, either in `dbt_project.yml` or within an individual function's YAML properties file. The function body is defined in a SQL file in the `functions/` directory.

> Function configurations, like model configurations, are applied hierarchically. For more info, refer to [config inheritance](/reference/define-configs#config-inheritance)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Function configurations, like model configurations, are applied hierarchically. For more info, refer to [config inheritance](/reference/define-configs#config-inheritance). 

Functions respect the same name-generation macros as models: [`generate_database_name`](/docs/build/custom-databases), [`generate_schema_name`](/docs/build/custom-schemas#how-does-dbt-generate-a-models-schema-name), and [`generate_alias_name`](/docs/build/custom-aliases).
```
